~~ Magic University (unnamed)

A dating sim slash fantasy life sim slash procgen dungeon game. we'll see how it goes. kind of like the sims x rimworld x a general dating sim?

## Characters
Characters are the autonomous inhabitants of the magic university. 

Characters have Avatars, which are their physical presence in the game. Most Avatars are moving bodies with physical needs, 
though perhaps a few Characters will have Avatars that do not function like this, e.g. something like a sentient personification of the University's walls, or ghosts.

Characters' minds are composed of Needs, Feelings, Thoughts, Actions, Memories, Traits, and Rules.
Traits are created into the Character and are influenced by their Culture. Needs are uncreated and change by the Environment. The Environment can produce Thoughts and Feelings. Needs can produce Feelings. Various mental circumstances can produce Feelings. Thoughts can produce Feelings, and Feelings can produce new Thoughts. Thoughts can produce Memories, and Memories can produce Thoughts. Thoughts can produce Actions. Memories can change Traits. Traits can motivate Thoughts. 

Rules are a final special category which prevent certain actions from happening, cause certain actions to happen, and influence Thoughts. Rules are created by Memories and Traits, and Memories can change Rules. They can also be generated by Culture.

### Needs
Needs are basic inherent things the Character keeps track of and which produce Feelings. They are scalar values from 0 to 100. As they get lower, they increase certain Feelings. Some Needs are listed as Mortal, meaning a Character will prioritize them far more than other Needs. Non-mortal Needs can be affected by Personality Traits, which may decrease or increase their thresholds for making Feelings.

Some Needs and their general descriptions:
* Breath (Mortal): The need for a Character's Avatar to breathe
* Hydration (Mortal): The need for a Character's Avatar to drink water
* Satiation (Mortal): The need for a Character's Avatar to eat food
* Energy (Mortal): The need for a Character's Avatar to sleep.
* Health (Mortal): The need for a Character's Avatar to be unwounded and not sick.
* Shelter: The need for a Character's Avatar to not be susceptible to the elements.
* Comfort: The need for a Character's Avatar to be comfortable.
* Contentment: The need for a Character's Avatar to be enjoying, in the sense not feeling pain and eating or feeling sensations they like.
* Connection: The need for a Character to have social relationships
* Love: The need for a Character to be loved.
* Purpose: The need for a Character to understand what they are doing.

### Feelings
Feelings are basic environmental circumstances in a character that affect how they think and act, reducing or increasing the likelihoods of certain kinds of actions. 
Feelings simply are measurable as scalar values from 0 to 100 in general.

Some Feelings and their general descriptions.
* Hunger: Correlated with Satiation. Tends to motivate thoughts to eat. 
* Thirst: Correlated with Hydration. Tends to motivate thoughts to drink. 
* Exhaustion: Correlated with Energy. Tends to increase Unwillingness and thoughts to rest. Creates visual changes in the darkness of eye-circles. 
* Sleepiness: Can be caused by low Energy. Tends to motivate thoughts to sleep and unlocks some special interactions. Creates visual changes in drooping eyes. 
* Discomfort: Correlated with Comfort. Usually creates thoughts that increase emotions like Distraction, and motivates thoughts to increase Comfort. 
* Illness: Correlated with Health. Usually creates thoughts that increase emotions like Distraction and Stress, and motivates thoughts to increase Health
* Pain: Produced by certain environmental health damages. Usually creates Thoughts that decrease emotions like Happiness, increase emotions like Fear, Distraction, Discomfort, and motivates thoughts to decrease pain. Creates visual changes in the furrowing of the brow and some facial expressions. 
* Pleasure: Produced by certain environmental stimuli. Usually creates Thoughts that increase emotions like Happiness, and motivates thoughts to derive more pleasure. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions.
* Happiness: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally decreases Unwillingness and Stress and Topics associated with this feeling tend to be prioritized in selections. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions
* Discontent: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally alike to Discomfort. Topics with this feeling tend to be deprioritized in selections.
* Satisfaction: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally alike to Happiness, but also decreases Frustration, Distraction, and Anger. Topics with this feeling tend to be prioritized in selections.
* Sadness: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally increases Unwillingness and Topics associated with this feeling get deprioritized. Also motivates Thoughts to end the sadness. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions
* Fear: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally motivates Thoughts of fleeing and avoidance. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions. Topics with this feeling tend to be physically avoided and deprioritized.
* Guilt: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally increases varying emotions depending on personality traits, and motivates Thoughts of absolving guilt.
* Anger: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally motivates Thoughts of acting on the anger. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions. Can motivate thoughts about causing actions that damage or destroy Topics associated with this feeling
* Frustration: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally motivates Thoughts of stopping actions and increases Anger. Topics with this feeling tend to be deprioritized.
* Confusion: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally motivates Thoughts trying to reconcile the confusion, and can motivate Thoughts that increase Stress. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions. 
* Stress: Produced by various Thoughts. Causes Thoughts with positive emotions to have much of their emotional significance negated, and increases the effects of thoughts of negative emotions. Also motivates thoughts to decrease stress. Creates visual changes in furrowing of brow and other visual properties. Topics associated with this feeling may be deprioritized or avoided.
* Distraction: Produced by various Thoughts. Causes Thoughts to get deleted randomly more often. Topics associated with this feeling will be deprioritized when Deference is high.
* Deference: Produced by Thoughts, usually associated with certain Rules or Topics. Topics associated with this feeling will be prioritized in truthfulness and Must-do Thoughts.
* Contempt: Produced by Thoughts, usually associated with certain Rules or Topics. Topics associated with this feeling will be deprioritized in truthfulness and Must-do Thoughts.
* Unwillingness: Produced by various Thoughts. Causes actions to be less likely to be taken. 
* Shyness: Produced by various Thoughts. Mainly causes certain actions to play out differently and be less likely. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions and such and blushyness(?). 
* Care: Produced by some Thoughts. Generally increases Happiness and motivates Thoughts about doing caring actions toward someone. Topics associated with Care will be heavily prioritized.
* Attraction: Produced by various environmental stimuli. Generally motivates Thoughts about the attraction, and thoughts aimed toward acting on the attraction, as well as a general increase in Distraction. Creates visual changes in blushyness(?). Topics associated with Attraction will be sought out rather than avoided, and may be prioritized.
* Embarrassment: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally decreases Happiness, increases Unwillingness, Awkwardness, and motivates thoughts about avoiding social interaction. Creates visual changes in blushyness(?). Embarrassment + Frustration creates a pouty facial expression(?). Topics associated with Embarrassment will be avoided.
* Awkwardness: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally increases Distraction, and motivates thoughts about exiting the current situation in some way. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions. Topics associated with this feeling will be avoided.
* Disgust: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally decreases happiness and motivates thoughts of avoidance of the cause(s) of disgust. Creates visual changes in some facial expressions. Topics associated with this feeling will be avoided.
* Shame: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally decreases happiness and increases Embarrassment and increases Deference
* Suspicion: Produced by some Thoughts. Generally causes future Thoughts about what Topic says to be marked as Dubious, or a Lie if Suspicion is high.
* Amusement: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally increases Happiness and decreases Stress, and motivates Thoughts about laughing, as well as a change in dialogue style.
* Uncertainty: Produced by various Thoughts, typically ones that suggest a Concept is or isn't real, in a way conflicting with earlier beliefs. Generally increases Stress and Confusion. Motivates thoughts about realness. 
* Disappointment: Produced by various Thoughts, typically ones about Rules. Topics associated with this emotion are more often avoided or receive fewer positive actions.
* Wonder: Produced by various Thoughts. Generally increases Happiness and motivates thoughts about witnessing and enforces realness. Topics associated with this emotion may be sought greatly and prioritized .
* Strangeness: Generally created by circumstances associated with supernaturally induced feelings. 
*

### Thoughts
Thoughts come in different basic kinds, and they have an associated Feeling (or set thereof) that they are expected to create. They are also temporary, except when they create memories. Thoughts can have Topics, which are Characters and objects. They also have a Timestamp, which is a calendar date they are linked to, and can be marked as Lie if a Character has figured out that someone they're talking to is lying, or as Dubious if they are just suspicious. 

Each thing has theta-roles, i.e. **A**gent, **P**atient, **I**nstrument, **T**heme, and **C**ircumstance. Fundamentally, the Agent causes the action, the Patient is something that changes state by an action or is otherwise acted on, the Instrument is the thing used for an action, the Theme is what an event is "about", and the Circumstance is the place or time or state of an event. 

Thoughts can also have a *Source* if they are told by someone else. However, the Source may become forgotten.

A *Metathought* is a special kind of Thought that is about another Thought. Metathoughts usually represent hypotheticals, such as questions or desires. They are topically associated with the same Topics as their contained Thought, but usually influence the mind and actions differently.

All thoughts are generated with randomness and different weights based on personality traits, but before being deployed in the mind they check conditions to determine if they are appropriate. If not, they are not deployed in the mind.

#### Types of Thoughts
* [T1] feels <feeling>: If feelings of Care about this individual are high or the Empathy trait is High, increments the <feeling> in the thought. Some feelings will motivate different feelings depending on Cause, e.g. if X feels Contempt and it's caused by something I did, then a feeling of Anger might happen instead.
* [T1] is no longer feeling <emotion>: If feelings of Care about this individual are high or the Empathy trait is High, decrements the <feeling> in the thought.
* [A1] did <action>: Feeling depends on action and Traits
* [A1] did <action> to [P1], [P2],...: Feeling depends on action and Traits and Rules, and Relationship-Memory to [A1], [P1], [P2]...
* <Action> happened among [T1], [T2], [T3]...: Feeling depends on action and Traits and Rules and Relationship-Memory
* [A1] did <action> using [I1]: Feeling depends on action and Traits and Rules and Relatitonship-Memory.
* [A1] did <action> using [I1] to [P1], [P2]...: Feeling depends on action and Traits and Rules and Relatitonship-Memory.
* I must do <action>: Feeling depends on feelings toward Source and action 
* I must do <action> to [P1], [P2],...: Same
* I must do <action> with [T1], [T2]...: Same
* I must do <action> using [I1]: Same
* I must do <action> using [I1] to [P1], [P2]...: Same
* [A1] said <simple-statement> about [T1], [T2]...: Feeling depends on simple-statement and Traits and Rules and Relatitonship-Memory.
* Conversation happened among [T1], [T2]...: Feeling depends on conversation and Traits and Rules and Relatitonship-Memory.
* [T1] is <status>: Feeling depends on status and Relationship-Memory to [T1] and Traits
* [T1] is no longer <status>: Feeling depends on status and Relationship-Memory to [T1] and Traits
* [T1]'s <trait (personality or Avatar)> is <value>: Feeling depends on trait and Relationship-Memory to [T1] and Traits
* [T1] is at [C1]: Feeling depends on Rules, Relationship-Memory to [T1] and [C1] and Traits
* [T1] is no longer at [C1]: Feeling depends on Rules, Relationship-Memory to [T1] and [C1] and Traits
* [T1] is with [T2]: Feeling depends on Rules, Relationship-Memory to [T1] and [T2] and Traits
* [T1] is no longer with [T2]: Feeling depends on Rules, Relationship-Memory to [T1] and [C2] and Traits
* [T1] might be lying: Feeling depends on Relationship-Memory to [T1] and Honesty trait
* [T1] is lying: Feeling depends on Relationship-Memory to [T1] and Honesty trait
* [T1] is telling the truth: Feeling depends on Relationship-Memory to [T1] and Honesty trait
* I care for [T1]: Generates feeling of Care
* My <need> is satisfied: Generates feeling of Satisfaction
* My <need> is worsened: Generates feeling of Discontent
* [A1] is following <rule>: (same)
* [A1] ignored <rule>: Generates Disappointment
* [T1] can ignore <rule>: No feeling
* I must stop following <rule>: No feeling
* I must start following <rule>: Generates minor Stress
* [T1] is real: Generates Wonder
* [T1] might be real: No feeling
* [T1] is not real: Generates Disappointment
* [T1] knows what [T2] is: No feeling
* [T1] doesn't know what [T2] is: No feeling
* I understand [T1]: Generate Satisfaction
* I do not understand [T1]: Generate Frustration
* [A1] manifested at [C1]: Feeling depends on relationship to [A1] and [C1]
* [A1] vanished from [C1]: Feeling depends on relationship to [A1] and [C1]
* [T1] is a figure of authority: Generates deference, depends on Rebelliousness
* 

##### Metathoughts
* I want [Thought]: Generates Discontent
* [Thought] is necessary: Generates more Discontent
* Did [Thought] happen?: No feeling
* Did [Thought] not happen?: No feeling
* I dreamt about [Thought]: Feeling depends on Thought
* I witnessed [Thought]: Feeling depends on Thought
* It is not true that [Thought]: Feeling depends on Thought
* [Thought] is not possible: Feeling depends on Thought
* [A1] told me [Thought]: Feeling depends on Thought
* 

### Rules
Rules are simplistic relationships that consist of a *Cause* and an *Effect*. The Effect is usually marked with Feelings. Rules indicate the Character's understanding of the world. They may be marked with a *Strength* value, where Stronger Rules will take precedence over weaker Rules if they come in conflict (i.e. are applied to the same situation but the resultant thoughts , though the character will get the thought "I have ignored <rule>" when this happens. Rules can be created and deleted, though they tend to get recreated by the "I must follow <rule>" thought.

The *Probability* score indicates how likely the Cause is to cause the Effect. Furthermore, both the Cause and Effect are structures as Thoughts. Effect might be just BAD or GOOD, which is what motivates the "broke rule" and "followed rule" thoughts.

The "Topics" of the Cause and Effect need not be individuals, but can also be *Templates*, which are just marked by logical relations, i.e. and/or/not, and usually encompass what Kind of thing the Topic is, and what Statuses it might have.

### Actions

#### Dialogue
Dialogue is a way to convey information or change emotions. *Simple-statements* are small dialogues meant to influence emotions, but which don't convey information, whereas *Info-statements* are dialogues which convey information. Dialogue may be more or less *Comprehensible* depending on a Character's language values.

Dialogue can convey entirely false info.

Dialogue can be held between two or more individuals, and can be held either by directly being in the presence of an individual, or through communicative means. 

Dialogue can have Feelings encoded in them which are the Feelings that they are spoken with. Other Characters may pick up on those Feelings or not.

Simple-statements include:
* Compliment <trait (personality or Avatar)>: Generates feelings of Happiness, and can create Shyness if Attraction is picked up, as well as increase Attraction
* Insult <trait>: Generates feelings of Discontent and can produce Anger or Sadness depending on Traits
* Discuss [T1]: This indicates a discussion of the topic academically. Can create memories of understanding the Topic.
* 
* 
* 

### Memories
Memories are stored Thoughts, and can be periodically recalled, causing the emotions in their thought to surface again.
Memories are stored with links to their Topics, so that a Topic can be used to access a memory about it. 

Memories can be stored with a truth value, ranging from -1 to 1. Memories labeled negative are considered not True, and Memories labeled positive are considered True.

Memories also can be formed with causal links, i.e. relations that indicate what other memory caused this memory. This can be to denote events caused by other events, e.g. [*Max* is *dead*] -:CAUSE:-> [*John* did *killing* to *Max*]; or it can denote simply that a memory was generated by a feeling produced by another memory, e.g. [*I* feel *attraction*] -:CAUSE:-> [*John* said *compliment* about *me*], as a result of the Character thinking about [John said compliment about me], feeling happiness, happiness motivating a thought of attraction. 

Memories have *Salience* which determines whether they are accessed earlier or later in relation to their topic. Salience is determined largely by the strength of the emotion associated with the Topic, as well as with the general Salience stat of the type of thought itself.

Relationship Memory is a datum associated with each Topic that periodically gets the average emotional values of each memory under a Topic weighted by Salience, and also sums up the Salience, and stores those to determine which Topics are most significant and what the general feeling about those topics is.

#### Topics
*Topics*, as have been discussed multiple times, are other Characters, Objects, Groups, Places, or Ideas. Topic Memory is a collection of Topics the character knows, and also 

Concepts, which are topics that the Character does not have confirmation of, and which may or may not refer to real things. Concepts are stored as Names initially, indicating a Character knows nothing about them, and then as Concepts with a value of Dubiousness indicating how likely they are to exist. Concepts usually are passed in Culture, and when they are referenced a Character produces a Thought about knowledge about them if they don't know what they are, and a Thought about their realness.

Ideas are Topics stored like Concepts, but representing academic ideas and skills. "I understand" memories stack up about these to create a "skill level"

### Personality Traits
Personality traits govern many statistics about a Character. They can have binary values or 0-100 values.

List:
* Bashful: Compliments create Shyness, as do some circumstances
* Fuse (0-100): Sets the likelihood of Frustration creating Anger
* Empathy (0-100): Sets likelihood of feeling emotions others feel
* Understanding (0-100): Sets likelihood of "I understand" thoughts
* Rebelliousness (0-100): Sets likelihood of feeling Deference, and of feeling Contempt
* Honesty (0-100): Sets likelihood of lying and of creating a Rule that lying is BAD
* 
* Identity to <culture> (0-100): Determines connection to the given culture to determine what cultural rules come in
* Knowledge of <language> (0-100): Knowledge of languages to determine Dialogue comprehensibility.

## Avatars

### Statuses

## University
The University is the setting of the game and has systems that it upholds and which characters interact with.
## World
The World is everything outside the University, which is mainly inaccessible to the player directly. However, there will be Characters who come from the World and interact with Characters in the University.

Furthermore, there will be events in the World. Currently uncertain, but possibilities include:
* Political events that impact University regulations, funding, and conversations with other Characters about beliefs
* Maybe even a greater scale plot generation system that can allow for events like Rimworld, and can allow Characters to die and be in danger.
* Perhaps events that affect the magic system itself.














